for me life was a series of choices at
that moment that choice was accepted
injustice or rewrite the law and one of
these things is a lot better than the
other
yeah so having a very deep sense of a
North Star right that North Star for me
was passing these rights and then also
realizing that this is not only for me I
think social movements can be fueled by
anger but it can't be sustained on anger
yeah I think only hope can sustain
social movements and so at a point where
you run out of that anger right because
it will run out and you will hit what is
often called activism fatigue there are
so many issues where turn on the news
there's another catastrophe happening
every single day what can we actually do
right
that's where plans come in handy and
that's where hopefully
[Music]
thanks for tuning in to this episode of
impact theory sponsored by our friends
at Skillshare enjoy the episode
everybody welcome to impact theory our
goal with this show and company is to
introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams
alright today's guest is a two-time
Forbes 30 under 30 honoree who turned a
personal tragedy into one of the most
successful social movements in modern US
history a self-proclaimed civil rights
astronaut the trajectory of this Harvard
University graduates life was forever
altered when she was raped in her final
semester at college after encountering a
justice system so systemic lis broken
that convicted rapists had more rights
than their victims she realized that if
change was going to happen it was going
to be up to her armed with the belief
that freedom is not free
she got to work and founded rise a
national civil rights nonprofit with the
aim of ending sexual violence to date
she and her fellow risers have written
and gotten enacted into law the sexual
assault survivors Bill of Rights which
was passed by a unanimous vote becoming
only the 21st bill ever passed
unanimously for her work here and abroad
she's been named a foreign policy top
100 leading global thinker the Marie
Claire young woman of the year The
Tempest number one woman of color
trailblazer one of the Frederick
Douglass 200 and most accurately
capturing the scope of the impact that
she's had she was nominated for the 2019
Nobel Peace Prize so please help me in
welcoming the woman who's become one of
Shepard Fairey's iconic faces of the
future the former NASA intern who spends
her spare time hunting for new planets
the indomitable Amanda no N
thank you for being here
worse the crazy thing diving into your
story is a lot of people talk about
wanting to change the world but not many
of them actually do it's such a big task
when you're looking at a problem that
big how do you help people break it down
and turn it into a process that they can
actually execute against I love the way
you frame that question which is
breaking it down because hope and dreams
are two different concepts to me and
what I like to train teach my organizers
is that hope means you have a plan right
you know you can dream about anything
right but when you have hope for
something it means that we have concrete
goal and that there are steps from plan
a all the way to that goal that's one
part of it the other part is I truly
believe that we already have all of the
light within us to achieve what it is
that we want to achieve and that a lot
of growing up is just trying to not be
afraid of our own life what I mean by
that is well if you want to be a pop
singer then go be that if you want to be
an astronaut then go be that you know
and if you want to change the law take
it from someone who has go do that so
walk me through the the go be that to go
do that it it's a very powerful
statement but I think it's also where a
lot of people get lost
yeah so they hit the okay I want to be
an astronaut which is another dream of
yours so something you've stated very
publicly I want to be an astronaut and a
president which is pretty extraordinary
but actually pretty interesting is I
think you're making some incredible
world-changing moves that also set you
up pretty powerfully for both but when
people hit that wall of like this is so
big and I don't know where to begin what
concept of like that first thread do you
teach them to pull on and it might be
useful to understand like as you were
going through
your own trauma instead of being
overwhelmed and and feeling like I don't
know how to begin this process what was
that first concrete step that you took
yeah look my background is in national
security and astrophysics so I look at
systems and then I learn how to hack
them right so that's one thing the other
thing is that the most powerful tool we
all have is our voices and so once again
we recognize that given the technology
we have social media in this 21st
century the platforms that exist in
order to amplify our voices have been
democratized in a sense so while a tweet
can be a tweet which we can turn into a
movement like me too
and that is something that we shouldn't
underestimate but to your point which is
at what points of Cadalyst did I realize
that this is a very big problem but how
can i push through it
very honestly it was a very deep sense
and conviction in the principles and
values that I'm fighting for one
realizing that my story is not mine
alone I remember walking into the local
area rape crisis center and there
weren't enough seats for us in the
waiting room and I thought to myself if
I have resources if I have a Harvard Law
Professor as my attorney and we're still
going through a labyrinth that is a
criminal justice system well what does
everybody else going through that
doesn't have that right and for me life
was a series of choices at that moment
that choice was accepted in justice or
rewrite the law and one of these things
is a lot better than the other yeah so
having a very deep sense of a North Star
right that North Star for me was passing
these rights and then also realizing
that this is not only for me I think
social movements can be fueled by anger
but it can't be sustained on anger yeah
I think only hope can sustain social
movements and so at a point where you
run out of that anger right because it
will run out
and you will hit what is often called
activism fatigue there are so many
issues where you turn on the news
there's another catastrophe happening
every single day what can we actually do
right and so that's where plans come in
handy and that's where hope comes in
handy all right you've talked about hope
anomic s-- which i think is a really
interesting term how do we go from I'm I
have the the conviction and so I'm gonna
have my North Star I'm and have the
thing that's gonna give me the energy at
least to get started and I think it's
really you really hit me when you said
that the anger will burn out so how do
we connect to hope in a moment of either
tragedy or despair or feeling
overwhelmed how do we connect to that
hope and then how do we begin the
process of either researching or
building that plan yeah the hardest part
about Rhys is when an organizer a new
riser when we call them risers
organizers comes to me and says I just I
just want to make sure that no one in my
community has to go through what I had
to go through and so often there there's
a tradition in the world of people
taking their painful living truths and
channeling you back to justice and so
often people have to come to the
realization that maybe their own
personal justice will not be seen that
is the most difficult part okay but um
after realizing well hey maybe I can
make sense of this by channeling what
happened to me so that I can change the
world you know that in itself is
transformative and after passing 20 laws
all unanimous in around 20 months I
built and created a theory of organizing
and that's called hope anomic s-- or the
economics of hope the concept is that
hope is contagious right in social
movement building it's an art and a
science you're architecting ascend
again hope it's organizers from wherever
they are understanding that the people
who have the solutions to the world's
most pressing problems are the people
who live that problem everyday and so if
it's community centered and if we're
able to give those people in the
community the tools to understand the
system how to hack it where are the
points the catalysts of decision making
to in our case advance a bill how do you
tell your story in a way that creates
empathy how do you coalition build and
how do you learn about the incentives as
other people then maybe we can move and
shake some things and I'm so proud to
say you know that not I have passed
these 20 laws but that I was able to
train other people and that they passed
these laws yeah that is really
extraordinary and your whole notion of
coalition building and the fact that
we're living through one of the most
politically divisive times right now and
the fact that you were able to get these
bills passed unanimously is pretty
extraordinary
you've talked very openly about
coalition building is something that's
strategic there were things we had to
give up on to make sure that we had
people come to the table I have to
believe that you've learned some pretty
powerful lessons about how we bring
people that would otherwise want to
fight and disagree to the table what are
some tools of coalition building of you
know deploying empathy that allow you to
bring these people together yeah so I'll
tell I'll start with the the hard news
first which is there is a difference
between doing good and feeling good and
right now there is a lot of cathartic
performance political theater this both
sides both parties are responsible for
this people who just it certainly feels
good to perform to perform their ideas
to the max but I along with 25 million
other rape survivors in the United
States did not have that luxury for me I
didn't have the political luxury of not
getting my civil rights passed I
had to pend them into existence or else
no one would and in my specific case it
was that my evidence or colloquial known
as a rape kit would be actively
destroyed with a timer set on it so it
was not only just sheer oppression but
an urgent sense and hourglass ticking
you know and I kind of compared it to
like living through a saw game where I
only had X amount of time until my
justice would slip like sand through my
fingers and so because of this my bottom
line wasn't to tit-for-tat with somebody
else it was how do I get you to the
table so you understand that we're all
in this together
and that we have shared values of
humanity that's the first part you know
the second part one of the biggest
critiques that I get is that I'm not
radical enough and that the change that
we at rise create is incremental and I
own that we had to compromise in order
to get these laws on the books but what
that did was while we created the first
law that may not have been what we all
wanted the laws that were built
subsequently modeled off their it kept
pushing the boundaries for progress and
to me I I'm ok with that
you've said that having a voice is one
of the most powerful tools that we have
at our disposal how do people use that
voice in a way that will actually get
them where they want to go like when I
hear that people are criticizing you for
being radical that makes me nervous in
the sense that well you're just going to
end up back in these divisive camps and
we're back to you know the Kabuki of the
the grand performance without anybody
actually holding themselves accountable
to results so what do you teach your
risers to do with their voice yeah so
for our risers we trained them to cut
through the political discord right um
when a riser walks into an office of a
member of Congress they know everything
that that member
ever said on the issue and they know how
they voted on it they know the stats and
statistics but they also know the
personal stories
what how's that member said about this
issue what does that member care about
and also what is that member
incentivized by right how much what
you're learning in all of this do you
think applies to your life outside of
politics some of the strategies that you
guys use in the early days when people
weren't paying attention to you I found
really powerful and seem like they would
apply no matter what walk us through
some of the ways that you got people to
listen when they told you not to come to
Massachusetts it wasn't going to pass
don't even bother but you did go and you
managed in a very short period of time
to go from it's not going to pass - it
passes unanimously
what what would your actual tactics that
day that situation and for folks who
don't know the original law that I wrote
was for Massachusetts because that's
where my civil rights are that's where
my case is that's where I was raped and
I remember the legislative session
closing in the Statehouse closing and I
was at the final 24 hours I was in DC
and I was taking a flight up to Boston
to fight for my rights and I get a call
from a political advisor and she says
the speaker is not bringing up your bill
for a vote it's gonna die I thought to
myself well why should I get on this
plane and go to Massachusetts and then
just watch my civil rights get
slaughtered No
and it was other survivors who said just
show up and be present let them all see
your face and it was one of the best
lessons that I've ever learned which is
just show up just be there just just
show up for the next 14 hours we just
representative to Senator to office to
office went walked in and introduced
ourselves why we were fighting for this
why it needed to be put up for a vote
we caught we got people to call in and I
witnessed those calls coming into these
offices we were very annoying to the
secretary so those viewers
this but at the end of the day the
speaker did relent and he brought it up
for a vote and it passed unanimously and
that's how I and 400,000 other survivors
in Massachusetts got civil rights that
day and that lesson for me is it's not
over until it's over but also that
there's so much power so just going for
it
just believing that you can and fighting
until the very end because you don't
know that it's over it's over you've got
some pretty extraordinarily big dreams
like when I think that the person who
ended up writing these laws and getting
them passed and facing down a justice
system that most people are paralyzed by
the mere mention of having to crack that
sort of infamously just black box also
wants to be an astronaut which is
another just infamously difficult like
percentage-wise it's wrong it's crazy
yeah because at the end of the day you
know my skin the game isn't to I don't
know have a legacy within this I just
want to create change and then I want to
get off the planet because I want to go
to space and I think for that it really
helped me take an orbital perspective if
you will on what my role is in social
justice which I'm also happy to talk
about the work that I do and the way
that I designed organizing and Rhys is
very influenced by astrophysics and very
influenced by space or the overview
effect tell us about the overview effect
I'd be so happy to help
so when astronauts go into space for the
first time many of them go through this
profound cognitive psychological shift
and it's called the overview effect
where for the first time they see all
living things that I've ever lived or
died on this pale blue dot and it
overwhelms them with awe and a sense
that we are all on this spaceship earth
together so they leave Earth as
technicians but return to Earth deeply
moved and dedicated
to becoming a global citizen or
humanitarian Wow
that's really extraordinary so you seem
to already be the deep humanitarian so
what is it that drives you to want the
overview effect and a lot of times when
you say you know I want to get off this
planet it's a little tongue-in-cheek
makes it sound like you know I want to
get away from the madness yeah but I
actually I have a feeling that there's
something else driving that so what
makes you somebody so in touch with that
already want to go to space um when I
wake up every day the two burning
questions that I have is what is my
place in the universe and what am I
going to do about it
I think that both astrophysics and
humanitarian work answers those same
questions but also when I was 16 I had
two heart surgeries oh yeah my first one
failed so I had a ventricular
tachycardia I was in a wheelchair for
seven months I had a condition called
sudden death which meant that I could
die at any time
and that I was just lucky to wake up
another day and so for me that reset the
way that I thought of the world every
day is a blessing and also what am I
gonna do with my time on earth and so
I'm gonna do whatever I want which is
living my authentic self I which is
hunting for exoplanets and also
rewriting the law because I have the
right to do that and because I think
it's the right thing to do and then also
encouraging other people to to see that
they can be whatever it is that they
want to be - what is it about exoplanets
you find so interesting what is it
interesting about exoplanets I think
that it's built into our DNA to want to
be explorers but it's also as somebody
who's lived in this body and had to deal
with the different communities of
marginalized identities that I am a part
of how do we create a
world that is again fair and has the
potential to restructure other people's
potential right I think that's super
super cool yeah what do you think about
the perception so you talk about being a
part of multiple marginalized groups and
I remember the study came out that said
if you remind an Asian woman before she
takes a math test that she's a woman
she'll do poorly but that's correct mind
her that she's Asian she'll do well
that's so frame of reference is my
life's work by the way it is the thing
I'm more obsessed with than anything in
this world that is why we do impact
Theory it's to give people the ability
to construct a frame of reference that's
empowering so how do you think about
that how have you built your own mindset
to continue to pursue this extraordinary
stuff there's not a week that goes by
where I'm not reminded that I look the
way that I do
I'm either you know when I walk in and
someone assumes that I'm not the boss or
I walk in and they assume that my
English is so good how is that possible
it's constant or you know what sometimes
when I give speeches I ask the women in
the room to raise their hand if they
have ever within that last past couple
of days thought when they walked out to
their car or at night how to not be
raped nearly all of them raised their
hands and all the men all look around
they're like oh my god you know this
constant vigilance that women have to
put up or people who feel threatened
have to put up in order to just survive
so you know again even though I'm
consistently reminded of this when
people asked me how did I pass these
laws how did I believe I could do it at
20-something years old and it comes back
to that North Star that that very very
rock solid grounded belief that history
was on my side that this was way bigger
than me and that there was just no other
way that I I had to do this not only for
my own civil rights but because millions
of people
also needed it too and because it is my
constitutional right to do so and the
right thing to do
you've also called yourself I forget the
exact words you used but like an
unending optimist a pathological
optimist I like your phrase how do you
step into everyday with that optimism is
it just natural for you or is it
something that you actively cultivate
because you know it's useful oh yeah one
has to actively cultivate that I think
astronauts and activists have to be
extreme optimists in a sense where
you're so you're presented with these
incredible odds
and yet you're like yeah I can go to
space on this as a guinea pig on this
you know rocket that might explode that
has exploded in the past and same thing
with activists that in the face of
historical centuries of oppression that
we still believe we still believe in
that greater future or the our ability
to push for a more perfect union right
and again I think the most powerful
force in the world is hope I think love
is a derivative of hope right the fact
that we can't in fact dream of better
worlds we can think of what it would and
could and should be like and then push
for that and I think that is what makes
us human do you think anyone can
cultivate optimism yeah for sure are
there steps
well yes I don't have a plan outlined
for cultivating optimism by the
ballpark's wag me a few honestly
counting one's blessings is pretty
helpful for me but also knowing that
change takes hard Lent less work and
that there will be days when it sucks
but then there are days that remind you
why why it's worth it what is it that
you're doing you know I get a lot of
survivors coming up to me sharing with
me their stories and to me every time a
survivor does that it's like they're
handing
over coal it's a weight that I carry
with me but it also keeps and fuels my
fire for the fight and overtime under
pressure we all become diamonds like
that what do you think is the most
useful trait that you have that's
allowed you to excel like you've
excelled it is pathological optimism but
it's also quite honestly hard work I
think and I'm gonna say something that
might not be very popular especially
with Millennials but because of certain
marginalized identities I assume there
is an often just battle between the time
that I have for self-care and the time
that I have to just put in the hard work
you know and the 20 laws that have been
created is a result of immense work it's
almost like near-obsession of justice
right to be driven by a fire where
everything all day is about this and
unfortunately you know it is just like
experience I'll just talk about it from
my experience you have to put in that
work right there's this cartoon of two
people starting at you know a starting
line to finish a race and one of them
you know has just the race and the other
person has like a chain and there's a
crocodile a mode and all these spikes
and life is not fair but life is also
what we make of it and so for me the
reason why I'm not in space yet is
because I realized that after passing
these laws that I knew the path through
the obstacle course and that maybe if I
am able to create a blueprint I can show
other people too and that if they can do
it better than me that's when I
seated how do you advise people to be
authentic I find that a lot of times
people aren't sure like what that even
means they don't have a clarity in their
life yeah yeah well I ask people what
makes you cry yes because whatever moves
you is what you're passionate about and
it could be out of joy you could be out
of satin gonna be whatever what is it
that strikes and you and your heart and
your soul or you feel it a burning
sensation or just something that makes
you get out of bed leap out you know
that there find yourself in those
moments and when you're really close to
your soul I like that idea of finding
yourself a lot and I've got to imagine
one of the times in anyone's life where
it's gonna be hard to really find
yourself is after something traumatic or
very difficult what is the healing
process been like for you what do you
tell other survivors about that healing
process
yeah first of all there's no one way to
heal so I'll just speak for my own
experience for me the way that I found
justice was by creating justice I penned
my own civil rights into existence I
remember standing above the balcony the
United States Congress watching each
member that in itself to me was a form
of justice personal justice but the
transformation of going through and
enacting my right as a citizen and also
being able to help other people do that
too has been the greatest thing of all I
think a lot of risers again our
organizers come to rise and stay at rise
because they not only transform you know
change on a macro level with laws for
millions of people but also on a micro
level themselves do you have any more of
those negotiating tips that's one thing
that I thought would be really useful
for people to hear yeah there are what
I'm saying is a description not a
prescription right but also we've passed
these things 20 times it works it's a
idea of instead of being a battery RAM
being like water and flowing through the
cracks and and creating a tide that
pushes things through and so identifying
well where are the cracks
where are the systems so most bills that
rise works on civil rights bills go
through the Judiciary Committee and I
went to bill gets introduced it's yeah
put into a committee hours judiciary and
so in this committee let's just start
from the Senate in the United States
Congress for simplicity sake at the time
that I was advocating for these rights
the chair was senator Grassley nobody
could put up the bill for a vote except
for the chair he has the sole authority
to do so so why would I call my member
of Congress when I could just cut out
the middleman and go to the person who
has the the authority right at the risk
of being very basic a lot of people
don't actually know how a bill becomes a
law I mean it's actually my pet peeve
when people say call your member of
Congress cuz I don't think that actually
works and I'm an activist let me let me
tell you why there are really only four
people who control the process of a bill
to become a law in the United States
Congress and those four people are the
people who have what is called agenda
making Authority right these are people
who have the authority to put a bill on
the agenda for a vote so I talked to
Senator Grassley once the bill makes it
out of the committee it goes to the
floor the sole person who could bring
that up is Mitch McConnell majority
leader why would I go to other people if
he is again this whole person who makes
that decision
you know most most people don't realize
this right same thing in the house at
the time it was Bob Goodlatte for the
chair of the House Judiciary
and then Speaker Paul Ryan convincing
these four people helped get this bill
through in a unanimous way but also get
it through in seven months bills usually
take 10 to 15 years to pass
yeah we got it through in seven months a
group of twenty something year olds all
right learn the system hack the system
and when people realize this then they
can see oh well it maybe is not as
difficult as it sounds you know there's
a past victory and I'll show you how
it's really interesting breaking things
down in terms of if you want to hack the
system first you have to understand the
system don't you understand the system
then you can begin to find those points
of leverage or like you're saying flow
through the cracks yeah but it's
interesting to me how many things come
down to like when I think about okay you
just hit an impenetrable wall what are
the threads that you begin to pull out
to really understand something for me it
always begins with knowledge ends with
research so it's gonna be alright if I
want to understand how the system works
first I need to understand the terms I
just need to like there are words that
are going to be used that will allow me
to even unlock the next search that I'm
gonna do on Google or if I'm you know at
the library or whatever I need to know
what actual words and phrases to look
for so beginning just to understand what
I'll call the rules of the game is
really essential but I think people stop
because they're like I don't even know
the words rather than say okay step
number one is gonna be to learn the
words learn the lingo then understand
who the players are then understand the
power structure understand you know how
this all eventually works when you have
that when you have the pressure points
then it becomes actually plausible
because you can put that plan into place
even looking at so like I said at the
beginning of the show I really do want
to change the world so that's the thing
that drives me but when I think about
changing the world I think about how we
break things down into actionable items
and so even this okay my goal the
mission of this company is to pull
people out of the matrix by giving them
an empowering mindset how do you do that
at scale so and you know really being
honest about what works what doesn't to
your earlier point about we live in the
real world and so you have to deal with
the world a way that is not the way that
you wish it were which becomes very
empowering actually but as we began to
break down how we were going to impact
people at scale I had to acknowledge
that what I do on a daily basis is
essentially talked to camera
and say think like this and that affects
two to five percent of people and they
really do make change but there's up to
98 percent of the people that are
unaffected by that and so what haunted
me was how do I affect them and so by
doing what I was just saying figuring
out the terms finding the different
threads to pull on understanding how to
research this problem figuring out okay
I'm dealing with the human animal that's
what I'm trying to affect how does the
brain process data how can I then insert
myself into that process so that they're
building something that is based
essentially on the raw materials that I
give them and so it's so interesting to
hear you talk about the stuff because
that's essentially what you're doing
you're one game affine which I think is
really interesting and actual have
another question for you on that but
breaking it down into its constituent
parts finding out who the four people
are that have power first of all finding
out that four people have power then who
are those people
then what are their interests what's
actually gonna move them forward not
breaking down in fact this is an
interesting story I'd love you to tell
one of the early pieces of feedback you
got was this isn't politically
advantageous for me which you could have
gone nuclear you could have like freaked
out you could have shut down emotionally
but instead oh I made it so that it is
politically advantageous for them most
of issues in our congressional debates
that just where it's debates and it
isn't around facts anymore
and what what I realized was okay so how
do I figure out how to actually move
these people what are they incentivized
by right so clearly it's not only just
keep their seat but also it's what will
make them look good that's just the
reality of it sometimes I would talk to
you in the early days of rise members
who just really didn't care about me and
then all of a sudden when I brought a
celebrity they were they were there or
like if pres wanted to do something they
were there and I thought to myself huh
okay well if I can't convince you on the
merit of human rights then you know what
I will bring that celebrity and I will
bring that press because I will do what
it takes
order for millions of people to get
rights very very smart and speaking of a
tactic that helps people keep going talk
to me a little bit more about the
gamifying so the part that I found
really interesting and I'd love to hear
more about is you're saying that part of
a game is that you improve your skills
so how do you help people really
quantify and look at I actually am
getting better yes
okay I love this part because it is
probably the biggest thing I'm proud of
it's not only like the twenty laws for
40 million people but it's seeing people
transform as their skills become better
and these skills are not only like super
lobbying skills but rather
transformative empowerment so let me
give you an example most survivors when
they reach out to us have experienced
trauma that has resurfaced in their
lives it may not have been recent trauma
but it is it is present and what they're
trying to do is channel that energy now
into something and what that means is
that they are very triggered and easily
triggered and step one is narrative
training which is owning your own story
so we go through sessions where we sit
down with them in a safe environment and
have them tell their own story why do
you care about this what makes you you
and what do you hope to gain from this
all right and over time you know you see
them transform this narrative I mean
most people are in tears after their
first session I mean every I've never
had a session where people didn't cry
and you see them owned their story
workshop their own lives and be able to
tell their own stories in their own
words I think that's actually very
difficult a lot of people rely on
outside validation rather than think
what is my own story and how do I tell
it in my own words know Who am I you
know
and so that's part of narrative training
and it's quite intense because it's
around their own trauma but over time as
they go through the game they get to own
their own narrative they get to be the
writers of their own stories and then
they get to tell it to people who are in
decision-making positions and then they
get to convince those people to create
massive change and then as they go it's
step by step first it's one senator I'm
or one chair person and then it's just
the committee and then it's the floor
and then it's the other process of the
chamber and then it's the president you
know or the governor and at the end of
it they have been exercising their own
voice the power of their own voice the
power of persuasion and empathy building
and at the end of the game they're
standing over the shoulder of the
governor as he pens their own civil
rights into existence and millions of
others - and so that that growth is
extraordinary to see that's amazing all
right before I asked my last question
tell these guys where they can find you
get involved with you online or
elsewhere yeah so if anyone is
interested in writing penning their own
civil rights into existence and learning
the system and/or joining the fight they
can go to our website
so that's rise now us /join you can
learn about hope anomic there go through
the game yourself and learn how the
system works and make it work for you
all right
my final question I think I know how
you'll answer this but just in case
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world I want people to understand
that you absolutely can rewrite the law
you have it in you already to change the
world and as soon as you realize that
then you will that's amazing all right
guys this is somebody who is looking at
the gigantic problem of making change in
the world
who's not accepting excuses from herself
holding herself to a massive standard
realizing that you have to deal with the
world the way that it is and not the way
that you wish that it would be and as
enacted change that is so sweeping and
so amazing that it's obviously leaving
everybody who looks at it in awe the
fact that at her age at any age but
especially at her age who have been
nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize is
really really extraordinary and what I
love is that she was able to turn this
traumatic negative event and and really
morph it into something that is
extraordinarily beautiful and helping
tens of millions of people's lives and
that's just what she's done so far and I
can only imagine how far she's gonna
take this but at the same time is not
allowing herself to be easily defined is
also pursuing NASA is pursuing becoming
an astronaut is really looking at how
she can pursue the things that bring her
joy and the fact that she's willing to
overlook her cardiologist advice because
she wants to live life on her terms and
do things that she wants to do I think
is such a powerful message and the fact
that she takes that message and then
breaks it down into actionable steps
that anybody can come and plug into and
apply to their own life applied to their
own mission is really extraordinary and
when you play this out as to somebody
who sat before an intractable problem
and said anger is not going to get me
through this I'm gonna have to find
something beautiful I'm gonna have to
find a way to fill this with joy and
understood humans well enough to gamify
it and make it something that can be
empowering for people is really just
mind-blowing
and so I highly encourage you guys to
dive into her world to explore further
these ideas that she's playing with to
dream as big as she dreams but more
importantly to come up with those plans
that give rise to hope and allow you to
really fall in love with something and
do something with your life that is not
only extraordinary from the outside but
is extraordinary from the inside all
right if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary
take care
and thank you so much what's up
impactive as' if you want to acquire new
skills or improve the ones you already
have then you're going to love this as
you know a huge part of my life is about
acquiring skills that have utility and
exist in service of something greater
than myself and that is why I highly
recommend Skillshare Skillshare is an
online learning community with over
25,000 classes across more skills than
you can imagine
at impact theory we view skills share
for things like project management
marketing analytics and even for our
comic book and today skill share is
giving the first 500 people who click on
the link in the description to three
months to their entire library of
courses that's 60 days access to
literally thousands of courses on
whatever topics you choose for no money
at all you just have to click on the
link in the description below and join
the classes that work for you and you
will be in very good company as one of
the seven million people on Skillshare
and should you decide to stick around
beyond your free trial an annual
subscription to skill share is less than
ten dollars a month that's nothing for a
skill that can very well change your
life so go ahead and click on the link
in the description below to start
acquiring those skills today and until
next time my friends be legendary
at some point we all bought into this
lie that you've got to feel ready in
order to change we bought into this this
complete falsehood that at some point
you're going to have the courage at some
point you're gonna have the confidence
and it's total [__] frankly